yo ho ho so today I'm gonna do a video
to help you manage your TBR stress so it
started the new year and a lot of people
have set themselves Goodreads goals and
throughout the year you will see these
people get progressively more and more
stressed at the end of the year
approaches and you know meeting that
goal that they've set themselves this
video is just one to help ease the pain
that is the buying and reading what you
actually already have so my first tip is
to stop buying books just completely
stop don't go into bookstores don't go
onto Amazon and look at books just
totally cut it out of your life I did
this the first week is worst and then
you know you stop you get over there
kind of and it gets easier and you
forget then about the rush of buying new
books or in the excitement that just
goes away and you can just focus on what
you already have at home and you can
focus on getting your actual TBR down
rather than adding to it my second tip
is if you can't start buying yourself
books then become super selective with
the books that you buy if you go into a
bookstore and you're holes in a book way
up pros and the cons of it ask yourself
some questions about it is this book
going out of print is it gonna be here
in a month's time is it going to be here
in a year's time is there really any
rush that I need to get it right this
second how long will it take me to get
to this book well I just take it home
with me and sit it on my shelf and then
forget about it ask yourself some of
these questions and really way of how
soon you will get to reading it is it
something that you're really excited
about is it something that you have a
keen interest in just ask yourself a
series of questions when you're in the
book shop and if a lot of the answers
are no or it's gonna be a while before I
get to it I've got a
other stuff at home but I need to read
first then just put it down because most
of the time is probably not going out of
print that's the only time you need to
panic and buy something my third tip is
do not blind by now I have been
over by pretty covers many times because
of that I've learned to not buy
something because the cover is pretty
it's probably making up for the fact
that it has shitty writing the
publishers are just trying to entice
people by having very captivating cover
up don't buy a book because you heard
so-and-so mention once that they kind of
liked the book don't let other people
really influence you and it's not hard
because I can book - you're constantly
bombarded with books all the time
constantly adding - here to buy a store
to get lists my fourth tip is to utilize
your local library now this is something
people on books you really should be
doing because it is ridiculous at this
stage I used to do it a lot I don't
anymore because I currently own my
library a bit of money and I'm avoiding
them it is something people should do
especially if you're kind of you don't
have a huge interest in a book but
there's a lot of hype about it so you
kind of want to read it go to the
library and get it out if you don't get
to it within the certain amount of time
that the library a lot to see to read
you can always just take it back and
then you don't have to worry about it
you don't have to have it there on your
shelf kind of shame you and guilting you
pick it back and forget about it it's
just something that more people really
really should do and you know you could
always do library halls if you're very
into doing your book halls and things so
they can always do library halls it's
not like it's not that it doesn't count
or anything but are still interested in
what you're reading and what you what
you're going to read and all that jazz
so utilize your library especially for
books that you're kind of you're sitting
on the fence about that you're not quite
sure if you'll enjoy it you don't need
to buy every single book that you
about my fifth tip is to in this is only
recommended in a dire situation where
you've just dug yourself a hole and you
can't get out is to purge your
bookshelves is to get rid of some of
your TBR right now I really don't like
recommending doing this because I don't
believe you are actually dealing with
your TBR by just giving it away I don't
like on all videos because they depress
me
you saw the excitement in these people's
eyes when they originally hold these
books and then a couple of months later
they're like actually I have no
interested in this anymore it's just
really depressing there are also thinner
videos they're the worst type of filler
videos I have ever seen in my life
they're so lazy there is nothing to them
they're worse than hauls they're worse
than they're just awful if you have a
lot of books on your shelves that you
like I know I bought these and now
have no interest in reading them just
get rid of them maybe don't make a video
about it and let everyone know you're
Shane just give them to charity give
them to your library if you can make
some of the money back that you spent on
them put them up on eBay or take them to
a secondhand bookstore or something like
that if you really feel stressed out
because you have like 50 plus books or
100 plus books or even more in some
people's cases then just do yourself a
favor and get rid of the chunk of them a
lot of people say if you make a mistake
with getting rid of one you can always
get it back later in life you know what
I mean so there's no there's no pressure
so those are my tips to kind of help
manage your TBR there's no reading tips
or reading faster tips or anything like
that because I think everyone just needs
to take it at their own pace and not be
competitive about that and not compare
themselves to others which is a very
difficult thing to do especially on book
to you because you see so-and-so has
read this many pages and a certain
amount of hours I'm good
it can be very very stressful and it
shouldn't be it should be something that
we all do something pleasurable
something that we do for ourselves
something we do to just relax and chill
out rather than be reading a book and
thinking about how many pages you have
left to finish it so then you can mark
it off as a read so you can get on to
the next book and your TBR pile so we
all just need to take a deep breath and
sit back put the brakes on the buying
and just focus more on the reading so I
hope you enjoyed this video I hope you
can apply some of these tips to
yourselves and ease the stress I will
talk to you soon good bye